Stanford University
and Catherine is going to talk about
habits of thoughts in D Enlightenment's
so Martin I decided in the wake of
Geoffrey's talk than a more appropriate
title for my talk today would be
transferring the nouns the intellectual
history of the PhD students entry point
into the tech industry ok so the iPad is
a curious thing when it was first
released in 2010 most people who decided
to buy it didn't buy it because it would
satisfy a particular need but rather
because it was a fun toy they could play
with but the iPad is really no longer a
toy most of us have assimilated it into
our daily routines we use it to check
email read articles anything you like
sales of the iPad of catapulted from
14.8 million excuse me in 2010 to a
predicted 66 million by the end of 2012
how did this happen what's the basic
mechanism of human behavior that can
transform a toy into a tool that can
transform a sporadic act into a daily
routine or for the business world that
can transform a temporary fad into an
endurable and profitable fetish habits
writing about the social media sites
Facebook and Twitter silicon tech
bloggers near y'all has recently argued
that habit is the tech industry's most
powerful weapon for maintaining consumer
loyalty in today's digital world but
habit isn't new tech philosophers from
Aristotle to William James have all
argued that habit is central to human
behavior my dissertation claims that
habit was a crucial component of both
thought and knowledge in 17th century
Europe a sort of silly phrase does a
really good job explaining the model my
model for how function hat excuse me for
how habit functions in this period the
phrase is fake it till you make it so
the idea is that if you want to
transform yourself in some way
go from a PhD student to a tech
marketing special test you start by
assuming that you were already
transformed and you imagine how somebody
in this position would act and then you
imitate these actions repeating them
over and over again until habit
transforms that which starts as just a
sort of imaginary hypothesis right so
Katherine Hume as a tech marketing
specialist into a concrete reality
Katherine Hume being hired by Jeffrey
Moore at the venture capitalist firm
okay
so let's consider a concrete example to
get our heads around this a little bit
more the French mathematician Blaise
Pascal has his famous wager to convert a
libertine doubting atheist to a devout
Christian so Pascal starts his process
of conversion by convincing this
doubting atheist that even if he doesn't
believe in God at all it's nonetheless
in his pragmatic benefit to act as if
you were a believer because you
affiliated actions like piety and virtue
are his ticket to heaven so it's ticket
to everlasting bliss habit steps into
the picture to transform this as if
belief into genuine belief so remember
they could tell you make it right so
Pascal tells us atheist imagine that you
already were a believer and act
accordingly go to church down your knees
on pray take communion go through all of
the typical Christian rituals eventually
says Pascal habit will step in and
transform your deepest emotions to
engineer genuine belief in God for
Pascal therefore as in best presentation
conversion is not a momentary Epiphany
it's a long-term process governed by
habit
okay don't get me wrong my point today
is not that religious conversion is the
same thing as customer conversion that's
ridiculous and outrageous those nouns
are not transferable in my opinion my
points much more commonplace things
change people stay the same because
habit is so fundamental to how we act
and who we are that we can find these
surprising affiliations between 21st
century iPad addicts and 17th century
religious Congress my mission today is
therefore to emphasize on Iesus goal in
starting bibliothèque namely to convince
or inspire today's tech community that
it's in their benefit to return and
remember our collective past as they
help shape our productive future thank
you very much
for more please visit us at stanford.edu